In this lecture, we take a look at locating elements by the R&D attributes.
So what is h html i the attribute.
The attribute is used to specify a unique height the four heights hml element.
The value must be unique within HTML documents.
If you're familiar with web design, chances are you know how ideas and classes are used.
Since he I.D. is unique, it means we can easily use it to find a specific element.
So if we look at the below code snippet we use in driver defined elements by D and then in brackets
and double quotes, we're providing an ID value.
So let's look at an example.
So before I provide an example, it's important to explain how I intend to keep our code organized during
this course.
So if I open up eclipse.
You'll see that the classes we've created to date have been created under this default package.
So now that we're in Section four of this course, it makes sense to create new classes from this section
under a separate package.
So I intend to create a new package by right click in the source folder selected new and in in package.
And I'm going to then give this package a name of section zero four.
And if I click finish, that new package gets created.
So any classes that I create during this section will be created under this new package.
This will keep our code organized.
So now back to the example.
So if I open up Google Chrome and go to the automation test and website by going to WW DOT Automation
Test in the code at UK.
On the left hand menu.
I'm then going to select the buttons link.
This will take me to the Buttons page, so I'm going to be interacting with this button one.
So as we're using Google Chrome, you have access to developer tools which can be accessed by pressing
F12 on your keyboard.
By doing so, it will load up a panel similar to what shown.
So this is always useful to focus on each element.
So if I select this selector tool here.
And then select bottom one.
You'll see that the HTML has been highlighted for that particular element.
And we can see there has an ID of equals.
Baeten underscore one.
And this is a unique city for which we can use when we write our selenium test.
So if I go back now to eclipse, I minimize in the browser.
So under the new package, Section zero four, I'm going to right click select new and select class
that creates a new class.
So I'm going to be using a specific naming convention from this point onwards.
So as we're in Section four and this is lecture two in Section four, I'm going to use the name of L
zero to underscore.
Locating.
I'd.
And then click Finish.
And this will create a new class.
So we're going to use a similar naming convention from this point onwards.
So rather than me creating the will, I'm also going to open up Chrome demo and I'm going to copy the
setup code that we've used previously.
So I'm going to copy from the public static void main all the way to the bottom.
And I'm going to copy that.
And in my new class, I'm going to highlight the last brackets and I am going to paste that code.
That is now set up code in our new class.
So the next thing I need to do is update this driver documents address, which is currently going through
the automation test in home page.
So I'm going to open up the browser and instead I'm going to instruct my test to go straight to the
buttons page.
So I'm going to copy the arrival and I'm going to go back to Eclipse, where I'm going to then highlight
the existing address and replace it won't paste in the new address, which would take me directly to
the Buttons page.
And then need to find a unique I.D. to interact with but someone and we know that but someone has an
I.D. or Beaton underscore one.
So I'm going to double click to copy it and I'm going to go back to Eclipse and I'm going to write.
Driver dots find element.
So without the s.
And then in the brackets, I'm going to write, boy.
So b y.
Dot.
My day.
And then in the next sets of brackets and in double quotes, I'm going to place on the value of beats
and underscore one.
And at the end of that line, I'm going to add a semicolon.
So that line will be accepted.
But the problem is, I need to prove to you I can interact with the elements.
So I need a way to click it.
So what I'm going to show you is an additional command.
So instead of a semicolon, I'm going to write a dot click.
And this will instruct selenium to click that element.
So that's our code now.
Complete.
So I'm going to press control s on my keyboard to save this class and then I'm going to attempt to run
in it by right click in the class, going to run as in select in Java application and let's see what
happens.
So we can see that the test went to the Buttons page and it then clicked button one.
As this is proven by the alert, which says you click the first button.
So this is how we was able to interact with an element using the unity attribute.
So the code to do this was fairly simple.
All we need to remember is that when we use driver defined element by three, then we need to pass an
ID value.
Thank you for watching.